# FastEFL
Edge federated learning (EFL) enables distributed computation on edge devices via federated learning without sharing plaintext data. Nowadays, as attacks like model inversion and membership inference pose severe privacy threats to edge devices, privacy-preserving EFL has emerged by leveraging diverse cryptographic techniques. However, two major challenges remain: 1) They cannot achieve high training efficiency since complex cryptographic interactions burden communication-constrained edge devices. 2) They cannot protect model privacy when the majority of entities are malicious and corrupt, which is prevalent in practice and brings substantial privacy risks to the honest participants. In this paper, we propose a communication-efficient and privacy-preserving scheme for edge federated learning, called FastEFL, to address these issues. Specifically, we propose a topology-aware model aggregation method by exploring the privacy coupling relationships among devices and shifting heavy optimization overhead to the offline phase, which reduces the communication rounds to 3 and substantially improves the overall efficiency. Then, we propose a double-masking aggregation method based on Learning With Errors (LWE) problem. By splitting private keys between two servers and designing inversion-resistant cryptographic masks, our method protects the privacy of models from edge devices and defends user sensitive data against collusion by up to $n-2$ adversarial devices and the server. Extensive experiments demonstrate that compared with state-of-the-art privacy-preserving EFL schemes, FastEFL cuts runtime by 40$\%$ to 120$\%$ in the model aggregation phase. It also reduces the communication expansion factor from 1.6 to nearly 1.0, greatly boosting overall efficiency. Theoretical analysis further verifies that our scheme effectively protects the gradient privacy of edge devices under in different settings. 
